eyes wall here this week we're going to
be learning about how rock band works
out of that bar camp philly this week
rockin the shirt and we had a rock band
party let's look at the technology
behind how this thing works
I gotta play you can tell there's
clearly no flu player around here right
but now because of midi I have two
players
daddy sanchez just like a flute if i
wanted to go to a um to a brass player
now we can have trumpets okay sounds
just like a trumpet to me
all right and on top of that we can have
let's do a drummer ready okay so that's
the idea is that just through the power
of midi it's actually using real audio
but that every time that I want that
sound it's being pre recorded so that
I'm telling my computer every time that
i played this note I want you to play
that sound when I'm going to play a note
on here the sound is actually coming
from a sample that's inside the game
that's already been pre-recorded wall
you mean to tell me that we need audio
samples for every single note within
that song and the answer absolutely it's
a super super tedious thing to do and
here's where gets crazy is that they
don't only do it for the for the guitar
players but they do it for the bass
players for the baselines in installing
they do it for the drum lines in the
song and being that they don't do it too
is the vocals okay um the vocals remain
the same no matter what fat the whole
piece it would be too difficult to
change the vote goes there's its to
quote unquote human right you know
mount on so the idea is that they get
all these sounds all these samples every
every note so that if you were to not
play a note then it tells the computer
don't play this note because the guitar
player in rock band didn't play that
note so that when you're playing rock
band and you're really getting bad right
and you start clinking on sounds that's
a whole nother trigger that's another
sample let me show you alright so we're
gonna take a second look at this I
haven't tuned up to a guitar now okay so
sounds like a big far right so if i play
a bad note it's just a different sample
so instead of something like this
let's play something like this they add
notes so when I play a note that isn't
on the exact timing in guitar hero or in
we're in rock band or something it
simply tells the computer real quick
within this one second you guess from
that to play a bad note sample so that
when you're playing guitar hero and
you're not on point and your drummer is
not on point and your bass player is not
on point all these bands samples start
to come out and then it sounds like that
that then it sounds like that the band
isn't tight ball because they're not but
that the drummer instead of hitting the
crash cymbal well you know make a
mistake or maybe not make the hit at all
so ultimately you really feel like that
you are playing well then what's all
this well this is the actual tech okay
so pushing down on the button does
nothing other than tell the computer
that these are the notes that you want
to play but then when you actually push
down on this that actually triggers
these notes to be played this on the
other hand well here's your normal
controls by the way online Xbox guy and
more of a poet like a wee guy that's
just me here's like my actual whammy bar
what does this is actually a modulation
wheel so just like this mod wheel ones
for pitch once for mod I'll off student
on pitch so if I play the flute part i
can easily change that sound although i
can change the actual audio it's still
the same pre-recorded audio okay
I'm actually using a modulation data in
order to take that sound and bend it
down and bend it up okay in real in real
time without having to get a whole
nother sample and that's what this does
is that when I go to play a note all I'm
doing is I'm bending the sound using
modulation but it's still the same exact
audio sample so now to show you how it
all happens is instead of playing on
here and simply own better than it is
than it is now if I were to play on here
it would sound like this
and there we have it it sounds just like
a real instrument you do that for the
bass player for the drummer and then
keep that vocal line on top and it
really creates this entire user
experience you follow me on twitter at
Walt Ribeiro you can email me Walt at
Water Bearer not net or you can go to my
website Walt Ribeiro net not hard to
follow all that stuff right and any
questions let me know guys
you